.TH MUPAGER 1 "2024" "mupager" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mupager \- terminal document viewer with pixel-perfect rendering
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mupager
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.I file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mupager
is a terminal document viewer that renders documents with pixel-perfect
quality using the Kitty graphics protocol. It supports PDF, EPUB, XPS,
CBZ/CBR, FB2, MOBI, SVG, HTML, and image formats via the MuPDF library.
.PP
It provides continuous scroll, single-page, page-height, and side-by-side
view modes, Vim-style search with highlighted matches, table of contents
overlay and sidebar, link hints, configurable themes, and fully
customizable keybindings.
.PP
.B mupager
can run as a standalone terminal application or as a Neovim plugin backend.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print the version and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-diagnose
Print diagnostic information (terminal, display, tmux, config) and exit.
.TP
.BI \-\-view\-mode " MODE"
View mode. One of
.BR continuous ,
.BR page ,
.BR page\-height ,
.BR side\-by\-side .
Default:
.BR continuous .
.TP
.BI \-\-render\-scale " SCALE"
Render scale for cached page rendering. One of
.BR auto ,
.BR never ,
.BR 0.25 ,
.BR 0.5 ,
.BR 1 ,
.BR 2 ,
.BR 4 .
Default:
.BR auto .
.TP
.BI \-\-mode " MODE"
Frontend mode. One of
.BR terminal ,
.BR neovim .
Default:
.BR terminal .
.TP
.BI \-\-theme " THEME"
Color theme. One of
.BR dark ,
.BR light ,
.BR auto ,
.BR terminal .
Default:
.BR dark .
.TP
.BI \-\-scroll\-lines " N"
Number of lines per scroll step.
Default: 3.
.TP
.BI \-\-max\-page\-cache " MB"
Maximum page cache size in megabytes.
Default: 64.
.TP
.BI \-\-log\-level " LEVEL"
Log level. One of
.BR trace ,
.BR debug ,
.BR info ,
.BR warn ,
.BR error ,
.BR critical .
Default:
.BR info .
.TP
.BI \-\-log\-file " PATH"
Log file path.
Default: \fI$XDG_STATE_HOME/mupager/mupager.log\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-show\-stats
Show cache statistics in the statusline.
.TP
.BI \-c\  PATH\fR,\ \fB\-\-config " PATH"
Config file path, overriding the XDG default location.
.SH KEYBINDINGS
The following keybindings are available in terminal mode. All bindings
are configurable via the
.B [keys]
section of the config file.
.PP
.TS
lb lb
l l .
Key	Action
_
j / Down	Scroll down
k / Up	Scroll up
d	Half page down
u	Half page up
Ctrl+F	Page down
Ctrl+B	Page up
h / Left	Scroll left
l / Right	Scroll right
+ / =	Zoom in
\-	Zoom out
0 / w	Fit width (zoom reset)
Tab	Toggle view mode
t	Toggle theme
q	Quit
gg	First page
G	Last page
H	Jump back
L	Jump forward
f	Link hints
:	Command mode
/	Search
n	Next match
N	Previous match
o	Table of contents
e	Toggle sidebar TOC
?	Toggle help
Esc	Clear search
[n]gg / [n]G	Go to page n
:reload	Reload document
.TE
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is read from a TOML file at
.IR $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/mupager/config.toml
(typically
.IR ~/.config/mupager/config.toml ).
Use the
.B \-\-config
option to specify an alternative path.
.PP
Command-line options take precedence over config file values.
.SS Top-level keys
.TS
lb lb lb
l l l .
Key	Type	Default
_
view\-mode	string	"continuous"
theme	string	"dark"
render\-scale	string	"auto"
scroll\-lines	integer	3
max\-page\-cache	integer	64
log\-level	string	"info"
log\-file	string	(auto)
show\-stats	boolean	false
terminal\-fg	string	(detect)
terminal\-bg	string	(detect)
.TE
.PP
.B terminal\-fg
and
.B terminal\-bg
override the auto-detected terminal foreground and background colors.
Values are specified as
.B "#RRGGBB"
strings.
.SS [colors] section
Color values are specified as
.B "#RRGGBB"
strings,
.BR "default" ,
or a 256-color index (integer 0\(en255). Alpha values are integers 0\(en255.
.PP
.TS
lb lb
l l .
Key	Description
_
statusline\-fg	Statusline foreground
statusline\-bg	Statusline background
overlay\-fg	TOC/help overlay foreground
overlay\-bg	TOC/help overlay background
overlay\-border	TOC/help overlay border
sidebar\-fg	Sidebar foreground
sidebar\-bg	Sidebar background
sidebar\-active\-fg	Sidebar active item foreground
sidebar\-active\-bg	Sidebar active item background
sidebar\-border	Sidebar border
link\-hint\-fg	Link hint label foreground
link\-hint\-bg	Link hint label background
search\-highlight	Search match highlight color
search\-highlight\-alpha	Search match highlight alpha (0\(en255)
search\-active	Active search match color
search\-active\-alpha	Active search match alpha (0\(en255)
recolor\-dark	Dark theme recolor base
recolor\-light	Light theme recolor base
recolor\-accent	Accent color for terminal theme
.TE
.SS [keys] section
Keybindings are configured by mapping action names to key specs:
.PP
.RS
.nf
[keys]
scroll\-down = ["j", "Down"]
quit = "q"
first\-page = "gg"
page\-down = "Ctrl+F"
.fi
.RE
.PP
Key specs can be:
.IP \(bu 2
Single characters:
.B "j"
.IP \(bu 2
Special names:
.BR Tab ", " Esc ", " Up ", " Down ", " Left ", " Right ", " PageUp ", " PageDown ", " Home ", " End ", " Space ", " Enter ", " Backspace
.IP \(bu 2
Ctrl combos:
.B "Ctrl+F"
.IP \(bu 2
Double-key sequences:
.B "gg"
.PP
Assigning a key spec to an action replaces all default bindings for that action.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/mupager/config.toml
Default configuration file (or \fI$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/mupager/config.toml\fR).
.TP
.I ~/.local/state/mupager/mupager.log
Default log file (or \fI$XDG_STATE_HOME/mupager/mupager.log\fR).
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME
Base directory for configuration files. Defaults to
.IR ~/.config .
.TP
.B XDG_STATE_HOME
Base directory for state files (logs). Defaults to
.IR ~/.local/state .
.TP
.B SPDLOG_LEVEL
Fallback log level when
.B \-\-log\-level
is not specified.
.TP
.B NVIM
Neovim RPC socket path. When set, indicates the process is running
inside Neovim.
.TP
.B TERM
Terminal type identifier.
.TP
.B TERM_PROGRAM
Terminal emulator name (e.g., "kitty", "WezTerm").
.TP
.B TMUX
Tmux socket path. When set, enables tmux-aware visibility management.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Error (invalid arguments, missing file, render failure, config error).
.SH EXAMPLES
View a PDF:
.PP
.RS
.B mupager document.pdf
.RE
.PP
Open in page-height mode with light theme:
.PP
.RS
.B mupager \-\-view\-mode page\-height \-\-theme light paper.pdf
.RE
.PP
Use a custom config file:
.PP
.RS
.B mupager \-\-config ~/my\-config.toml thesis.pdf
.RE
.PP
Run diagnostics:
.PP
.RS
.B mupager \-\-diagnose
.RE
.PP
Open an EPUB with debug logging:
.PP
.RS
.B mupager \-\-log\-level debug novel.epub
.RE
.SH TERMINAL COMPATIBILITY
.TP
.B Kitty
Full support (native graphics protocol).
.TP
.B WezTerm
Full support (Kitty graphics protocol compatible).
.TP
.B Ghostty
Full support (Kitty graphics protocol compatible).
.TP
.B Tmux
Requires
.B "set \-g allow\-passthrough on"
in
.IR tmux.conf .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR less (1),
.BR zathura (1)
